Hi friends in this video let us discuss about using
an array of pointers to string.
First let us see why do we need it? Let's
take an array subject of five strings each 20 characters long
so it will allocate 100 bytes like this and
each string will be stored like this. Here if we notice
the string
Tamil takes only six bytes and the remaining 14 bytes
are wasted. For English 12 bytes are wasted. For maths
14 bytes are wasted. For science 12 bytes are wasted.
and for the string social science five bytes are wasted
So in total 100 bytes, 57 bytes are wasted
We can avoid this situation by using an array of
pointers to string. The syntax for that is the keyword
char followed by * array_name followed by size
in square brackets followed by a semi colon
So in this example we can write char *subject[5]
If we create an array of pointers to string like
this it will occupy only required 43 bytes
So an array of pointers to string
is memory efficient
Now let's print each string's base address. As we know
string name itself holds the base address of the string.
So subject[0] will print first string's
Address. subject[1] will print the address of second
string and so on
So let us use a for loop to print it all
in each iteration it prints subject[i] and see
that we're using %p format specifier to print
a string address. So we get the output like this
&subject[0] equal to 1024.
&subject[1] equal to 1030. &subject[2] equal to 1038.
&subject[3] equal to 1044. and &subject[4] equal to 1051.
Now let's print each string
It is very simple
We can use %s format specifier
to print each string. We pass the base
address of each string and print
%s  will print all the characters from the base
address till we reach a NULL character
So again we use a for loop and in each
iteration we print subject[i]
So we get subject[0] equal to Tamil
subject[1] equal to English subject[2] equal to maths
subject[3] equal to science and subject[4]
equal to social science
so that is how using array of pointers to string is
very efficient in many cases
So that's all and thank you for watching this video